# Epileptic Seizure Detection - A Comparative Analysis

**Introduction** <br>
This project aims to help the neurologists in detecting a seizure whether it is epileptic or normal eliminating the manual observation throughout the process with .edf files as input that can accurately identify the epilepsy.
Recording the EEG data by placing electrodes on the scalp of the patient is out of scope. So, we have used free online available dataset of CHB-MIT.

**Objectives** <br>
  1. To remove unnecessary noises from raw signals of the EEG Data.
  2. To perform pattern analysis and extract important features from the data.
  3. To implement different algorithms and compare the results generated by them.
  4. To classify the states into epileptic and normal EEG.
  5. To develop a website where edf files can be uploaded and the system can do seizure detection.

**Implementation** <br> 
  The front end :
      Developed using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap to create interactive user interface. 
  The backend : 
      Responsible for the application logic, was implemented in python.
  Django FrameWork: 
      A high-level Python web framework that encourages rapid development and Elegant system for mapping URLs to python code.

**Comparative Analysis** <br>
Here we are comparing different models which are Random Forest, X-Trees, CNN for attaining the maximum accuracy model by comparing all of them. The given input file is divided into different sections. The outcomes showed that the X-Trees is the most effective classifier.




